profile/ARCHITECTURE.md, before:

# RFC: Oppulence Platform Architecture

> Revenue Operations OS — unified financial data plane and application suite for SMB SaaS companies.

| Field | Value |
|-------|-------|
| Status | Draft (living) |
| Drivers | Platform Team |
| Reviewers | Infra + App Leads |
| Created | 2024-11 |
| Last Updated | 2024-11 |

## 1) Problem & Goals

Modern SaaS vendors need a consolidated revenue stack: ingest multi-provider financial signals, enforce controls, enrich with AI, and expose a programmable surface that powers first-/third-party apps. Oppulence delivers:

- A **developer platform** (financial data plane + control plane APIs) with first-class multi-tenancy, RBAC, rate limiting, idempotency, and caching.
- **First-party apps** (Polar billing, Canvas recovery) built on the same platform APIs.
- **Data/infra services** (sync, storage, usage-based billing) providing durable pipelines, observability, and replayability.

Non-goals: pricing/packaging, UX copy, commercial SLAs (covered elsewhere).

## 2) System Context (C4 Level 1)

```mermaid
flowchart LR
  subgraph Providers [External Providers]
    Stripe -. webhooks/API .-> Sync
    Plaid --> DevAPI
    GoCardless --> DevAPI
    Teller --> DevAPI
    EnableBanking --> DevAPI
    QuickBooks --> DevAPI
    Xero --> DevAPI
  end

  subgraph Edge [Edge + Control Plane]
    DevAPI["Developer Platform API (Cloudflare Workers)"]
    CP["Control Plane (Go services)"]
  end

  subgraph Apps [First-Party Apps]
    Polar["Polar (Billing/Storefront)"]
    Canvas["Canvas (Dunning/Recovery)"]
  end

  subgraph DataPlane [Data Plane Services]
    Sync["Sync Engine (Fastify + PG + ClickHouse)"]
    Storage["Object Storage"]
    UBB["Usage-Based Billing (OpenMeter fork)"]
  end

  subgraph State [State Stores]
    CH[(ClickHouse)]
    PG[(PostgreSQL/PlanetScale)]
    Redis[(Redis/Upstash)]
    S3[(S3/R2)]
  end

  Providers --> DevAPI
  DevAPI <-->|REST/Webhooks| Apps
  DevAPI <-.-> CP
  DevAPI <--> Sync
  Sync <--> PG
  Sync <--> CH
  CP <--> PG
  DevAPI <--> Redis
  DevAPI <--> Storage
  UBB <--> PG
  UBB <--> CH
  Storage <--> S3
```

## 3) Component Inventory (C4 Level 2)

| Repository | Layer | Responsibilities | Primary Stack |
|------------|-------|------------------|---------------|
| `oppulence-developer-platform` | Platform | Edge API (REST), control plane (RBAC, tenancy, rate limiting), financial engine, enrichment, idempotency, secrets, provider adapters | Cloudflare Workers (Hono/TypeScript), Go services, MySQL/PlanetScale, Redis, ClickHouse |
| `oppulence` | App | Billing, checkout, invoicing, customer portal, pricing pages, subscription lifecycle, receipts | FastAPI + SQLAlchemy, Next.js, PostgreSQL, Redis + Dramatiq |
| `oppulence-canvas` | App | Dunning, recovery workflows, magic links, email sequences, analytics with holdouts | Next.js 16 + React 19, Supabase (PostgreSQL), Graphile Worker, Drizzle |
| `oppulence-sync-engine` | Infra | Stripe webhook ingestion, dual-write PG/ClickHouse, replay/backfill, DLQ | Fastify + TypeScript, Prisma, PostgreSQL, ClickHouse, Graphile Worker |
| `oppulence-storage` | Infra | Multi-tenant object storage, signed URLs, lifecycle policies | Fastify + TypeScript, S3/R2 |
| `oppulence-usage-based-billing` | Infra | Meter ingestion, aggregation windows, billing export | Go, Kafka, ClickHouse |

## 4) Domain & Data Model (C4 Level 3)

```mermaid
erDiagram
  WORKSPACE ||--o{ API_KEY : owns
  WORKSPACE ||--o{ USER : contains
  WORKSPACE ||--o{ CONNECTION : has
  WORKSPACE ||--o{ ACCOUNT : has
  WORKSPACE ||--o{ TRANSACTION : scopes
  WORKSPACE ||--o{ WORKFLOW_RUN : tracks
  USER }o--o{ ROLE : assigned
  TRANSACTION ||--o{ ENRICHMENT : attaches
  TRANSACTION }o--o{ LEDGER_ENTRY : posts
```

- **Tenancy**: `workspace_id` on every row; RLS enforced in PG/CH; Redis keys namespace-prefixed; S3 paths include workspace prefix.
- **Identity/RBAC**: WorkOS/NextAuth → workspace membership → role policy (Owner/Admin/Member/Service) enforced in control plane.
- **Idempotency**: `Idempotency-Key` header hashed per workspace + route; stored with TTL in Redis; replay-safe for POST/PUT/PATCH.
- **Eventing**: Ledger/event bus emits to ClickHouse via Kafka pipeline for analytics, replay, and reconciliation.

## 5) Request Lifecycles (C4 Level 3/4)

### 5.1 Checkout + Billing + Ledger (Polar → Platform → Stripe)

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
  participant UI as Polar Web
  participant PolarAPI as Polar API (FastAPI)
  participant DevAPI as Developer Platform (CF Worker)
  participant CP as Control Plane (Go)
  participant Stripe as Stripe
  participant CH as ClickHouse

  UI->>PolarAPI: POST /checkout (workspace scoped)
  PolarAPI->>DevAPI: POST /v1/transactions.create (Bearer + X-Workspace-Id)
  DevAPI->>CP: Validate tenant, RBAC, rate-limit, idempotency
  DevAPI->>Stripe: Create PaymentIntent / Customer
  Stripe-->>DevAPI: PaymentIntent + client_secret
  DevAPI-->>PolarAPI: Payment session payload
  Stripe-->>PolarAPI: Webhook: payment_intent.succeeded
  PolarAPI->>DevAPI: POST /v1/webhooks/stripe (signed)
  DevAPI->>CP: Persist transaction + ledger events (PG)
  CP->>CH: Emit analytics event (Kafka → ClickHouse)
  CP-->>DevAPI: ACK
  DevAPI-->>PolarAPI: 200 OK
  PolarAPI-->>UI: Checkout success, receipt link
```

### 5.2 Recovery Flow (Canvas → Platform → Sync Engine)

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
  participant Canvas as Canvas Web
  participant CanvasAPI as Canvas API (Next.js)
  participant DevAPI as Developer Platform
  participant Sync as Sync Engine
  participant CH as ClickHouse

  Canvas->>CanvasAPI: Load failed payments dashboard
  CanvasAPI->>DevAPI: GET /v1/transactions?status=failed&since=T
  DevAPI->>Sync: Fetch materialized view / cache
  Sync-->>DevAPI: Failed payment set (tenant isolated)
  DevAPI-->>CanvasAPI: JSON payload
  CanvasAPI->>Canvas: Render + allow workflow selection
  Canvas->>CanvasAPI: Start recovery workflow
  CanvasAPI->>DevAPI: POST /v1/workflows/run (magic link, email)
  DevAPI->>CH: Track workflow + A/B cohort events
```

### 5.3 Data Ingestion (Stripe Webhook → Sync Engine → Platform)

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
  participant Stripe as Stripe
  participant SyncAPI as Sync Engine (Fastify)
  participant Worker as Worker (Graphile)
  participant PG as PostgreSQL
  participant CH as ClickHouse
  participant DevAPI as Developer Platform

  Stripe-->>SyncAPI: Webhook event (signed)
  SyncAPI->>PG: Upsert raw + normalized records (tenant key)
  SyncAPI->>Worker: Enqueue fan-out jobs (idempotent key)
  Worker->>PG: Backfill/retry with exponential backoff
  Worker->>CH: Dual-write analytics projection
  Worker->>DevAPI: Internal POST /v1/webhooks/stripe (tenant-scoped)
  DevAPI->>Redis: Invalidate caches; refresh materialized views
```

## 6) API Surface (selected, workspace-scoped)

- `POST /v1/connections` — create provider connection; stores encrypted credentials; returns connection id.
- `GET /v1/transactions` — list transactions with enrichment toggles; supports incremental `since` cursor.
- `POST /v1/transactions.sync` — initiate backfill/sync job; rate-limited per workspace.
- `POST /v1/enrichment` — AI enrichment for merchant/category/purpose/recurrence.
- `GET /v1/accounts` — accounts with balances and institution metadata.
- `POST /v1/webhooks/stripe` — signed ingestion from Sync Engine or Stripe direct.
- `POST /v1/workflows/run` — trigger recovery workflow (Canvas).
- `GET /v1/ledger` — ledger entries by workspace, immutable.

## 7) Security, Auth, and Compliance Controls

```mermaid
flowchart TB
  Client -->|Bearer + X-Workspace-Id| Edge[CF Worker]
  Edge --> AuthNZ[AuthZ Lambda/Worker]
  AuthNZ -->|Validate API key, workspace, scopes| RBAC{RBAC}
  RBAC -->|Allow| Route[Route Handler]
  RBAC -->|Deny| 403[403]
  Route -->|Decrypt secrets| KMS[(KMS/R2 KV)]
  Route --> CP[Control Plane]
  CP --> Audit[(Audit Logs -> ClickHouse)]
```

- **API Auth**: Workspace-scoped API keys (HMAC). Rotation via control plane; keys hashed at rest.
- **Provider Secrets**: Encrypted at rest (KMS/R2-KV); decrypted per request in edge runtime; scoped to workspace.
- **Transport**: TLS everywhere; webhook signatures verified (Stripe, Plaid, GoCardless, Teller).
- **RBAC**: Policy matrix per route; service keys separated from user keys; audit log for privilege changes and key rotation.
- **PII Handling**: Tokenized provider identifiers; log minimization; ClickHouse restricted views; access via scoped roles.
- **Compliance Posture**: SOC2 alignment; auditable events for auth, payouts, connection changes, workflow edits.

## 8) Reliability, Performance, and Observability

- **SLOs (targets)**: p99 latency < 400ms (edge API); ingestion lag < 30s; webhook success > 99.9%; checkout availability > 99.9%.
- **Idempotency & Retry**: Stripe webhook ingestion idempotent via event/tenant key; exponential backoff with jitter; DLQ + replay CLI; ledger writes immutable with compensating events.
- **Caching**: Redis per-tenant caches for accounts/transactions; TTL 30–120s; stampede protection via singleflight; cache bust on writes/webhooks.
- **Rate Limiting**: Sliding window per workspace and per API key; burst tokens for backfill endpoints; header exposure for remaining quota.
- **Health**: `/healthz` and `/readyz` per service; synthetic checks for checkout, enrichment, webhook ingress; circuit breakers per provider adapter.
- **Telemetry**: OpenTelemetry traces (edge → control plane → sync engine); metrics to Prometheus/Grafana; logs to Loki; ClickHouse for product analytics.

## 9) Deployment & Environments

```mermaid
flowchart TB
  subgraph Edge
    CF["Cloudflare Workers (Dev API)"]
  end
  subgraph Apps
    PolarApp["Polar (Vercel)"]
    CanvasApp["Canvas (Vercel)"]
  end
  subgraph Services
    SyncSvc["Sync Engine (K8s)"]
    StorageSvc["Storage (K8s)"]
    UbbSvc["Usage Billing (K8s)"]
    CPsvc["Control Plane (Go, K8s)"]
  end
  subgraph Data
    PG[(PostgreSQL/Supabase/PlanetScale)]
    CH[(ClickHouse Cloud)]
    Redis[(Upstash Redis)]
    S3[(S3/R2)]
  end
  CF-->Services
  Apps-->CF
  SyncSvc-->PG
  SyncSvc-->CH
  CPsvc-->PG
  CF-->Redis
  CF-->S3
```

- **Environments**: dev (shared), staging (prod-like with masked data), prod (isolated). Feature flags via LaunchDarkly/Envoy filters.
- **CI/CD**: GitHub Actions → lint/test → build → deploy; infra via Helm + Terraform (`oppulence-infrastructure-as-code`).
- **Secrets**: Cloudflare Secrets, Kubernetes Secrets (sealed), R2 KV for provider tokens; short-lived tokens for internal service calls.

## 10) Failure Modes & Mitigations

- Provider outage (Stripe/Plaid): circuit breakers per adapter; cached reads; webhook backlog queued with backoff; replay tooling.
- ClickHouse unavailability: OLTP writes continue; analytics events buffered for replay; CH writers paused to avoid partials.
- Redis outage: fall back to direct DB reads; conservative rate limiting to prevent false throttling; disable cache-mandatory paths.
- Webhook spikes: autoscale Sync Engine; bounded queues; DLQ + replay CLI; shard by workspace id.
- Partial writes: dual-write guardrails (PG primary); compensating ledger events for rollback/void flows; idempotent ledger append.

## 11) Data Platform Notes

- **ClickHouse**: Fact tables for transactions, ledger events, workflow events; materialized views per workspace; TTL for raw ingestion; S3-backed parts where applicable.
- **PostgreSQL/PlanetScale**: Authoritative OLTP for tenants, connections, keys; strict FK + RLS; partitioning by workspace id for large tables.
- **Kafka (OpenMeter)**: Meter ingestion → window aggregations → billing exports to Polar; backpressure-aware consumers.
- **Storage**: R2/S3 for receipts, invoices, attachments; signed URLs; lifecycle policies (90d cold storage); per-tenant prefixes.

## 12) Operational Runbooks (pointers)

- Webhook replay: `oppulence-sync-engine` worker CLI with tenant + event id filters.
- Cache flush: per-workspace Redis namespace eviction triggered via control plane admin endpoint.
- Key rotation: rotate workspace keys via control plane; propagate to Workers KV; audit in ClickHouse.
- Backfill: `/v1/transactions.sync` with rate-limited windows; monitor ingestion lag dashboards.

## 13) Repository Pointers

- Platform: `oppulence-developer-platform/apps/api` (edge API), `apps/financial-engine-api`, `go/` (control plane), `internal/` (shared packages).
- Polar: `oppulence/server/polar`, `clients/apps/web`, `server/migrations`.
- Canvas: `oppulence-canvas/apps/web`, `packages/engine`, `packages/worker`, `packages/db`.
- Sync Engine: `oppulence-sync-engine/packages/fastify-app`, `packages/sync-engine`, `packages/worker`.
- Storage: `oppulence-storage/apps/api`.
- Usage Billing: `oppulence-usage-based-billing/` (OpenMeter fork).

## 14) Open Items

- Formalize SLAs/SLO error budgets per route and publish dashboards.
- Expand provider matrix (QuickBooks/Xero read/write parity).
- Add privacy threat model and DLP checks for enrichment logs.
- Define RPO/RTO and DR runbook per environment.

## 15) Quick Links

| Repository | Purpose | Docs |
|------------|---------|------|
| [oppulence-developer-platform](https://github.com/Oppulence-Engineering/oppulence-developer-platform) | Unified Financial API | [RFCs](https://github.com/Oppulence-Engineering/oppulence-developer-platform/tree/main/docs/rfcs) |
| [oppulence](https://github.com/Oppulence-Engineering/oppulence) | Billing/Storefront | [README](https://github.com/Oppulence-Engineering/oppulence/blob/main/README.md) |
| [oppulence-canvas](https://github.com/Oppulence-Engineering/oppulence-canvas) | Dunning/Recovery | [README](https://github.com/Oppulence-Engineering/oppulence-canvas/blob/main/README.md) |
| [oppulence-sync-engine](https://github.com/Oppulence-Engineering/oppulence-sync-engine) | Stripe Data Sync | [README](https://github.com/Oppulence-Engineering/oppulence-sync-engine/blob/main/README.md) |
| [oppulence-storage](https://github.com/Oppulence-Engineering/oppulence-storage) | Object Storage | [README](https://github.com/Oppulence-Engineering/oppulence-storage/blob/main/README.md) |
| [oppulence-usage-based-billing](https://github.com/Oppulence-Engineering/oppulence-usaged-based-billing) | Usage Metering | [README](https://github.com/Oppulence-Engineering/oppulence-usaged-based-billing/blob/main/README.md) |

---

*This RFC is source-of-truth; update alongside system changes.*

Commit message:

Docs: fix mermaid and embed focus plan

profile/ARCHITECTURE.md, after:

# RFC: Oppulence Platform Architecture

> Revenue Operations OS — unified financial data plane and application suite for SMB SaaS companies.

| Field | Value |
|-------|-------|
| Status | Draft (living) |
| Drivers | Platform Team |
| Reviewers | Infra + App Leads |
| Created | 2024-11 |
| Last Updated | 2024-11 |

## 1) Problem & Goals

Modern SaaS vendors need a consolidated revenue stack: ingest multi-provider financial signals, enforce controls, enrich with AI, and expose a programmable surface that powers first-/third-party apps. Oppulence delivers:

- A **developer platform** (financial data plane + control plane APIs) with first-class multi-tenancy, RBAC, rate limiting, idempotency, and caching.
- **First-party apps** (Polar billing, Canvas recovery) built on the same platform APIs.
- **Data/infra services** (sync, storage, usage-based billing) providing durable pipelines, observability, and replayability.

Non-goals: pricing/packaging, UX copy, commercial SLAs (covered elsewhere).

## 1a) Execution Focus & Timeline (from README.md)

- **Flagship bundle first:** Ship Oppulence (Polar fork) + Canvas dunning as one “Stripe cash OS” SKU. Deliver the sell → reconcile → recover loop end-to-end, price at $300–$800/mo, and land 5–10 beta customers before building anything else.
- **Platform powers products:** Harden Stripe Sync Engine + Unified API for first-party apps (SLAs, metering, observability, docs). Monetize externally only after the merchant bundle shows traction.
- **Brutal scope discipline:** Pause Eververse, Potion, Ultracite, storage forks, etc. unless they unblock the cash OS. Every extra repo is cognitive burn—ship only what accelerates invoice-to-cash revenue.
- **Execution sequence:**
  1. Lock data reliability in the Sync Engine/Unified API stack so Oppulence + Canvas trust every event.
  2. Finish Paperless backend essentials (invoice CRUD, PDFs, Stripe/Plaid payments, reconciliation) that feed Canvas.
  3. Build a single operator UI inside Oppulence Workspace for issuing invoices, tracking status, and escalating recoveries.
  4. Run founder-led sales loops with the Stripe merchant bundle, iterating on pricing and ROI proof points.
  5. After ARR momentum, offer the Unified API + developer platform to external builders with clear usage-based pricing.
- **Support assets, not distractions:** Use the lead-scraper to auto-populate the internal prospect list and power lightweight outbound; keep focus on “get Stripe merchants to pay for faster reconciliation and recovery.”

### Execution Timeline (Now → 2026)

| Phase | Focus | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- |
| **2024–2025** | Ship and bulletproof the Oppulence (Polar fork) + Canvas bundle | Deliver sell → reconcile → recover loop for Stripe merchants, land 5–10 paying pilots, instrument ROI; every other initiative serves this push (`oppulence/README.md`, `oppulence-canvas/README.md`). |
| **In Parallel** | Harden the developer platform (Stripe Sync Engine + Unified API) for internal use | Add SLAs, metering, observability, and docs so Oppulence/Canvas/Solomon AI consume a trustworthy data plane before exposing it to external builders (`oppulence-sync-engine/README.md`, `oppulence-unified-api/README.md`). |
| **Continuous** | Dogfood the lead-scraper for outbound | Use the existing lead-scraper service to auto-populate CRM/workspace with target SMBs and run founder-led outreach; only productize externally once it clearly fuels adoption (`oppulence-paperless-backend/services/lead-scraper-service/README.md`). |
| **2026** | Platform commercialization & workspace upsell | When the merchant bundle shows ARR momentum and the platform is stable, offer the Unified API + developer tooling to external builders and layer Solomon AI workspace features as the upsell. |

## 2) System Context (C4 Level 1)

```mermaid
flowchart LR
  subgraph Providers [External Providers]
    Stripe -. webhooks/API .-> Sync
    Plaid --> DevAPI
    GoCardless --> DevAPI
    Teller --> DevAPI
    EnableBanking --> DevAPI
    QuickBooks --> DevAPI
    Xero --> DevAPI
  end

  subgraph Edge [Edge + Control Plane]
    DevAPI["Developer Platform API (Cloudflare Workers)"]
    CP["Control Plane (Go services)"]
  end

  subgraph Apps [First-Party Apps]
    Polar["Polar (Billing/Storefront)"]
    Canvas["Canvas (Dunning/Recovery)"]
  end

  subgraph DataPlane [Data Plane Services]
    Sync["Sync Engine (Fastify + PG + ClickHouse)"]
    Storage["Object Storage"]
    UBB["Usage-Based Billing (OpenMeter fork)"]
  end

  subgraph State [State Stores]
    CH[(ClickHouse)]
    PG[(PostgreSQL/PlanetScale)]
    Redis[(Redis/Upstash)]
    S3[(S3/R2)]
  end

  Providers --> DevAPI
  DevAPI <-->|REST/Webhooks| Apps
  DevAPI <-.-> CP
  DevAPI <--> Sync
  Sync <--> PG
  Sync <--> CH
  CP <--> PG
  DevAPI <--> Redis
  DevAPI <--> Storage
  UBB <--> PG
  UBB <--> CH
  Storage <--> S3
```

## 3) Component Inventory (C4 Level 2)

| Repository | Layer | Responsibilities | Primary Stack |
|------------|-------|------------------|---------------|
| `oppulence-developer-platform` | Platform | Edge API (REST), control plane (RBAC, tenancy, rate limiting), financial engine, enrichment, idempotency, secrets, provider adapters | Cloudflare Workers (Hono/TypeScript), Go services, MySQL/PlanetScale, Redis, ClickHouse |
| `oppulence` | App | Billing, checkout, invoicing, customer portal, pricing pages, subscription lifecycle, receipts | FastAPI + SQLAlchemy, Next.js, PostgreSQL, Redis + Dramatiq |
| `oppulence-canvas` | App | Dunning, recovery workflows, magic links, email sequences, analytics with holdouts | Next.js 16 + React 19, Supabase (PostgreSQL), Graphile Worker, Drizzle |
| `oppulence-sync-engine` | Infra | Stripe webhook ingestion, dual-write PG/ClickHouse, replay/backfill, DLQ | Fastify + TypeScript, Prisma, PostgreSQL, ClickHouse, Graphile Worker |
| `oppulence-storage` | Infra | Multi-tenant object storage, signed URLs, lifecycle policies | Fastify + TypeScript, S3/R2 |
| `oppulence-usage-based-billing` | Infra | Meter ingestion, aggregation windows, billing export | Go, Kafka, ClickHouse |

## 4) Domain & Data Model (C4 Level 3)

```mermaid
erDiagram
  WORKSPACE ||--o{ API_KEY : owns
  WORKSPACE ||--o{ USER : contains
  WORKSPACE ||--o{ CONNECTION : has
  WORKSPACE ||--o{ ACCOUNT : has
  WORKSPACE ||--o{ TRANSACTION : scopes
  WORKSPACE ||--o{ WORKFLOW_RUN : tracks
  USER }o--o{ ROLE : assigned
  TRANSACTION ||--o{ ENRICHMENT : attaches
  TRANSACTION }o--o{ LEDGER_ENTRY : posts
```

- **Tenancy**: `workspace_id` on every row; RLS enforced in PG/CH; Redis keys namespace-prefixed; S3 paths include workspace prefix.
- **Identity/RBAC**: WorkOS/NextAuth → workspace membership → role policy (Owner/Admin/Member/Service) enforced in control plane.
- **Idempotency**: `Idempotency-Key` header hashed per workspace + route; stored with TTL in Redis; replay-safe for POST/PUT/PATCH.
- **Eventing**: Ledger/event bus emits to ClickHouse via Kafka pipeline for analytics, replay, and reconciliation.

## 5) Request Lifecycles (C4 Level 3/4)

### 5.1 Checkout + Billing + Ledger (Polar → Platform → Stripe)

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
  participant UI as Polar Web
  participant PolarAPI as Polar API (FastAPI)
  participant DevAPI as Developer Platform (CF Worker)
  participant CP as Control Plane (Go)
  participant Stripe as Stripe
  participant CH as ClickHouse

  UI->>PolarAPI: POST /checkout (workspace scoped)
  PolarAPI->>DevAPI: POST /v1/transactions.create (Bearer + X-Workspace-Id)
  DevAPI->>CP: Validate tenant, RBAC, rate-limit, idempotency
  DevAPI->>Stripe: Create PaymentIntent / Customer
  Stripe-->>DevAPI: PaymentIntent + client_secret
  DevAPI-->>PolarAPI: Payment session payload
  Stripe-->>PolarAPI: Webhook: payment_intent.succeeded
  PolarAPI->>DevAPI: POST /v1/webhooks/stripe (signed)
  DevAPI->>CP: Persist transaction + ledger events (PG)
  CP->>CH: Emit analytics event (Kafka → ClickHouse)
  CP-->>DevAPI: ACK
  DevAPI-->>PolarAPI: 200 OK
  PolarAPI-->>UI: Checkout success, receipt link
```

### 5.2 Recovery Flow (Canvas → Platform → Sync Engine)

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
  participant Canvas as Canvas Web
  participant CanvasAPI as Canvas API (Next.js)
  participant DevAPI as Developer Platform
  participant Sync as Sync Engine
  participant CH as ClickHouse

  Canvas->>CanvasAPI: Load failed payments dashboard
  CanvasAPI->>DevAPI: GET /v1/transactions?status=failed&since=T
  DevAPI->>Sync: Fetch materialized view / cache
  Sync-->>DevAPI: Failed payment set (tenant isolated)
  DevAPI-->>CanvasAPI: JSON payload
  CanvasAPI->>Canvas: Render + allow workflow selection
  Canvas->>CanvasAPI: Start recovery workflow
  CanvasAPI->>DevAPI: POST /v1/workflows/run (magic link, email)
  DevAPI->>CH: Track workflow + A/B cohort events
```

### 5.3 Data Ingestion (Stripe Webhook → Sync Engine → Platform)

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
  participant Stripe as Stripe
  participant SyncAPI as Sync Engine (Fastify)
  participant Worker as Worker (Graphile)
  participant PG as PostgreSQL
  participant CH as ClickHouse
  participant DevAPI as Developer Platform

  Stripe-->>SyncAPI: Webhook event (signed)
  SyncAPI->>PG: Upsert raw + normalized records (tenant key)
  SyncAPI->>Worker: Enqueue fan-out jobs (idempotent key)
  Worker->>PG: Backfill/retry with exponential backoff
  Worker->>CH: Dual-write analytics projection
  Worker->>DevAPI: Internal POST /v1/webhooks/stripe (tenant-scoped)
  DevAPI->>Redis: Invalidate caches and refresh materialized views
```

## 6) API Surface (selected, workspace-scoped)

- `POST /v1/connections` — create provider connection; stores encrypted credentials; returns connection id.
- `GET /v1/transactions` — list transactions with enrichment toggles; supports incremental `since` cursor.
- `POST /v1/transactions.sync` — initiate backfill/sync job; rate-limited per workspace.
- `POST /v1/enrichment` — AI enrichment for merchant/category/purpose/recurrence.
- `GET /v1/accounts` — accounts with balances and institution metadata.
- `POST /v1/webhooks/stripe` — signed ingestion from Sync Engine or Stripe direct.
- `POST /v1/workflows/run` — trigger recovery workflow (Canvas).
- `GET /v1/ledger` — ledger entries by workspace, immutable.

## 7) Security, Auth, and Compliance Controls

```mermaid
flowchart TB
  Client -->|Bearer + X-Workspace-Id| Edge[CF Worker]
  Edge --> AuthNZ[AuthZ Lambda/Worker]
  AuthNZ -->|Validate API key, workspace, scopes| RBAC{RBAC}
  RBAC -->|Allow| Route[Route Handler]
  RBAC -->|Deny| 403[403]
  Route -->|Decrypt secrets| KMS[(KMS/R2 KV)]
  Route --> CP[Control Plane]
  CP --> Audit[(Audit Logs -> ClickHouse)]
```

- **API Auth**: Workspace-scoped API keys (HMAC). Rotation via control plane; keys hashed at rest.
- **Provider Secrets**: Encrypted at rest (KMS/R2-KV); decrypted per request in edge runtime; scoped to workspace.
- **Transport**: TLS everywhere; webhook signatures verified (Stripe, Plaid, GoCardless, Teller).
- **RBAC**: Policy matrix per route; service keys separated from user keys; audit log for privilege changes and key rotation.
- **PII Handling**: Tokenized provider identifiers; log minimization; ClickHouse restricted views; access via scoped roles.
- **Compliance Posture**: SOC2 alignment; auditable events for auth, payouts, connection changes, workflow edits.

## 8) Reliability, Performance, and Observability

- **SLOs (targets)**: p99 latency < 400ms (edge API); ingestion lag < 30s; webhook success > 99.9%; checkout availability > 99.9%.
- **Idempotency & Retry**: Stripe webhook ingestion idempotent via event/tenant key; exponential backoff with jitter; DLQ + replay CLI; ledger writes immutable with compensating events.
- **Caching**: Redis per-tenant caches for accounts/transactions; TTL 30–120s; stampede protection via singleflight; cache bust on writes/webhooks.
- **Rate Limiting**: Sliding window per workspace and per API key; burst tokens for backfill endpoints; header exposure for remaining quota.
- **Health**: `/healthz` and `/readyz` per service; synthetic checks for checkout, enrichment, webhook ingress; circuit breakers per provider adapter.
- **Telemetry**: OpenTelemetry traces (edge → control plane → sync engine); metrics to Prometheus/Grafana; logs to Loki; ClickHouse for product analytics.

## 9) Deployment & Environments

```mermaid
flowchart TB
  subgraph Edge
    CF["Cloudflare Workers (Dev API)"]
  end
  subgraph Apps
    PolarApp["Polar (Vercel)"]
    CanvasApp["Canvas (Vercel)"]
  end
  subgraph Services
    SyncSvc["Sync Engine (K8s)"]
    StorageSvc["Storage (K8s)"]
    UbbSvc["Usage Billing (K8s)"]
    CPsvc["Control Plane (Go, K8s)"]
  end
  subgraph Data
    PG[(PostgreSQL/Supabase/PlanetScale)]
    CH[(ClickHouse Cloud)]
    Redis[(Upstash Redis)]
    S3[(S3/R2)]
  end
  CF-->Services
  Apps-->CF
  SyncSvc-->PG
  SyncSvc-->CH
  CPsvc-->PG
  CF-->Redis
  CF-->S3
```

- **Environments**: dev (shared), staging (prod-like with masked data), prod (isolated). Feature flags via LaunchDarkly/Envoy filters.
- **CI/CD**: GitHub Actions → lint/test → build → deploy; infra via Helm + Terraform (`oppulence-infrastructure-as-code`).
- **Secrets**: Cloudflare Secrets, Kubernetes Secrets (sealed), R2 KV for provider tokens; short-lived tokens for internal service calls.

## 10) Failure Modes & Mitigations

- Provider outage (Stripe/Plaid): circuit breakers per adapter; cached reads; webhook backlog queued with backoff; replay tooling.
- ClickHouse unavailability: OLTP writes continue; analytics events buffered for replay; CH writers paused to avoid partials.
- Redis outage: fall back to direct DB reads; conservative rate limiting to prevent false throttling; disable cache-mandatory paths.
- Webhook spikes: autoscale Sync Engine; bounded queues; DLQ + replay CLI; shard by workspace id.
- Partial writes: dual-write guardrails (PG primary); compensating ledger events for rollback/void flows; idempotent ledger append.

## 11) Data Platform Notes

- **ClickHouse**: Fact tables for transactions, ledger events, workflow events; materialized views per workspace; TTL for raw ingestion; S3-backed parts where applicable.
- **PostgreSQL/PlanetScale**: Authoritative OLTP for tenants, connections, keys; strict FK + RLS; partitioning by workspace id for large tables.
- **Kafka (OpenMeter)**: Meter ingestion → window aggregations → billing exports to Polar; backpressure-aware consumers.
- **Storage**: R2/S3 for receipts, invoices, attachments; signed URLs; lifecycle policies (90d cold storage); per-tenant prefixes.

## 12) Operational Runbooks (pointers)

- Webhook replay: `oppulence-sync-engine` worker CLI with tenant + event id filters.
- Cache flush: per-workspace Redis namespace eviction triggered via control plane admin endpoint.
- Key rotation: rotate workspace keys via control plane; propagate to Workers KV; audit in ClickHouse.
- Backfill: `/v1/transactions.sync` with rate-limited windows; monitor ingestion lag dashboards.

## 13) Repository Pointers

- Platform: `oppulence-developer-platform/apps/api` (edge API), `apps/financial-engine-api`, `go/` (control plane), `internal/` (shared packages).
- Polar: `oppulence/server/polar`, `clients/apps/web`, `server/migrations`.
- Canvas: `oppulence-canvas/apps/web`, `packages/engine`, `packages/worker`, `packages/db`.
- Sync Engine: `oppulence-sync-engine/packages/fastify-app`, `packages/sync-engine`, `packages/worker`.
- Storage: `oppulence-storage/apps/api`.
- Usage Billing: `oppulence-usage-based-billing/` (OpenMeter fork).

## 14) Open Items

- Formalize SLAs/SLO error budgets per route and publish dashboards.
- Expand provider matrix (QuickBooks/Xero read/write parity).
- Add privacy threat model and DLP checks for enrichment logs.
- Define RPO/RTO and DR runbook per environment.

## 15) Quick Links

| Repository | Purpose | Docs |
|------------|---------|------|
| [oppulence-developer-platform](https://github.com/Oppulence-Engineering/oppulence-developer-platform) | Unified Financial API | [RFCs](https://github.com/Oppulence-Engineering/oppulence-developer-platform/tree/main/docs/rfcs) |
| [oppulence](https://github.com/Oppulence-Engineering/oppulence) | Billing/Storefront | [README](https://github.com/Oppulence-Engineering/oppulence/blob/main/README.md) |
| [oppulence-canvas](https://github.com/Oppulence-Engineering/oppulence-canvas) | Dunning/Recovery | [README](https://github.com/Oppulence-Engineering/oppulence-canvas/blob/main/README.md) |
| [oppulence-sync-engine](https://github.com/Oppulence-Engineering/oppulence-sync-engine) | Stripe Data Sync | [README](https://github.com/Oppulence-Engineering/oppulence-sync-engine/blob/main/README.md) |
| [oppulence-storage](https://github.com/Oppulence-Engineering/oppulence-storage) | Object Storage | [README](https://github.com/Oppulence-Engineering/oppulence-storage/blob/main/README.md) |
| [oppulence-usage-based-billing](https://github.com/Oppulence-Engineering/oppulence-usaged-based-billing) | Usage Metering | [README](https://github.com/Oppulence-Engineering/oppulence-usaged-based-billing/blob/main/README.md) |

---

*This RFC is source-of-truth; update alongside system changes.*
